Example of how to write results for a classification tree:

Start with a picture of the final tree (simply include the picture generated by
your program).

(image image.png here)

Decision tree analysis was performed to test nonlinear relationships among
a series of explanatory variables and a binary, categorical response variable.
All possible separations (categorical) or cut points (quantitative) are tested.
For the present analyses, the entropy “goodness of split” criterion was used to
grow the tree and a cost complexity algorithm was used for pruning the full
tree into a final subtree.

The following explanatory variables were included as possible contributors to
a classification tree model evaluating smoking experimentation (my response
variable), age, gender, (race/ethnicity) Hispanic, White, Black, Native
American and Asian. Alcohol use, marijuana use, cocaine use, inhalant use,
availability of cigarettes in the home, whether or not either parent was on
public assistance, any experience with being expelled from school. alcohol
problems, deviance, violence, depression, self-esteem, parental presence,
parental activities, family connectedness, school connectedness and grade point
average.

The deviance score was the first variable to separate the sample into two
subgroups. Adolescents with a deviance score greater than 0.112 (range 0 to 2.8
–M=0.13, SD=0.209) were more likely to have experimented with smoking compared
to adolescents not meeting this cutoff (18.6% vs. 11.2%).

Of the adolescents with deviance scores less than or equal to 0.112, a further
subdivision was made with the dichotomous variable of alcohol use without
supervision. Adolescents who reported having used alcohol without supervision
were more likely to have experimented with smoking. Adolescents with a deviance
score less than or equal to 0.112 who had never drank alcohol were less likely
to have experimented with smoking. The total model classified 63% of the sample
correctly, 52% of experimenters (sensitivity) and 65% of nonsmokers
(specificity).
